STAGECOACH

TRANSCRIPT

1939, Walter Wanger Productions, Directed by John Ford, 
Screenplay by Dudley Nicoles





WHITE SCOUT
These hills here are full of Apaches. They've burned every ranch 
building in sight. He had a brush with them last night. Says 
they're being stirred up by Geronimo.

CAPTAIN SICKELS
Geronimo? How do we know he isn't lying?

WHITE SCOUT
Naw, he's a Cheyenne. They hate Apaches worse than we do.

CAPTAIN SICKELS
Clear the wire to Lordsburg.

NON-COM
That's Lordsburg now, sir. They seem to have something very 
urgent to tell you, sir.

CAPTAIN SICKELS
Well, what's wrong?

NON-COM
The line went dead, sir.

CAPTAIN SICKELS
What've you got there?

NON-COM
Only the first word, sir.

CAPTAIN SICKELS
Geronimo.

BUCK
Whoa! Whoa! Steady, whoa!

MAN #1
Well, so long, Buck.

MAN #2
Nice trip, Buck?

BUCK
Oh, so-so.

WELLS FARGO AGENT
Howdy Buck. Got that payroll for the mining company?

BUCK
Yes, sir. Right here in this box here.

WELLS FARGO AGENT
Good. Give me a lift, Jim, will ya?

BUCK
Jim, I'll pay you that two bits when I come through.

JIM
Okay, Buck.

BUCK
Okay, now. Here are... hey, you kids get away from those wheels. 
Well, sir we run into a little snow up there, it wasn't quite 
bad, though you fellas better prepare for a good frost. 
Passengers out for Tonto.

BUCK
You better get out and stretch your legs, I mean your limbs, 
ma'am. We're gonna change horses here.

LUCY
Is there some place here where I can have a cup of tea?

BUCK
Well, yes, ma'am, you can get a cup of coffee at the hotel across 
the street there.

LUCY
Thank you, driver.

BUCK
You're looking a little...

LUCY
I'll be all right, thank you.

BUCK
Yes, ma'am.

NANCY
Why, Lucy Mallory!

LUCY
Nancy! How are you, Captain Whitney?

WHITNEY
Fine, thanks, Mrs. Mallory!

NANCY
Why, whatever are you doing in Arizona?

LUCY
I'm joining Richard in Lordsburg. He's there with his troops.

WHITNEY
He's a lot nearer than that, Mrs. Mallory. He's been ordered to 
Dry Fork.

NANCY
Why, that's the next stop for the stagecoach. You'll be with your 
husband in a few hours.

NANCY
Oh, I'm so glad to see you, Lucy. Sit down, darling. We'll have a 
cup of coffee. You must be tired from that long trip.

LUCY
Who is that gentleman?

WHITNEY
Hardly a gentleman, Mrs. Mallory.

NANCY
I should think not. He's a notorious gambler.

BUCK
Hello, Mink. Howdy, Frank. Well, Marshall, I'm looking for my 
shotgun guard. Is he here?

CURLY
Out with a posse, Buck. Trying to catch the Ringo Kid.

BUCK
Ringo? I thought Ringo was in the pen.

CURLY
He was.

BUCK
Busted out? Well good for him.

FIRST DEPUTY
It's my guess the Kid's aiming to get even with them Plummer 
boys.

SECOND DEPUTY
It was their testimony that sent him to the penitentiary.

BUCK
Well, all I gotta say is that he better stay away from that there 
Luke Plummer. Why, gosh, Luke's run all of Ringo's friends out of 
Lordsburg. Why the Last trip there I seen him hit a rancher on 
the head with the barrel of his gun and well, he just laid it 
wide open like a butchered steer.

CURLY
You seen Luke Plummer in Lordsburg?

BUCK
Yessiree!

CURLY
You boys take care of the office for a coupla days. I'm going to 
Lordsburg with Buck. Going to ride shotgun.

BUCK
Oh, gosh, if I could just learn to keep my big mouth shut.

AGENT
Here's the payroll, Mr. Gatewood.

GATEWOOD
You know, ever since I opened this bank I've been trying to tell 
those people to deposit their payrolls six months in advance. 
It's good, sound business.

AGENT
It's good business for you, Mr. Gatewood.

GATEWOOD
Well, there's your receipt. Fifty thousand dollars. And remember 
this...what's good for the banks is good for the country.

(00:04:43)**

DOC BOONE
Now, now, now, my dear lady!

LANDLADY
Good riddance to bad rubbage. Now, get out and stay out! I'm 
keeping your trunk 'cause you ain't paid your rent.

DOC BOONE
"Is this the face that wrecked a thousand ships, And burned the 
towerless tops of Ilium? Farewell, fair Helen.

DALLAS
Doc! Doc, can they make me leave town when I don't wanna go? Do I 
have to go?

SHERIFF
Now, Dallas, don't you go making no fuss.

DALLAS
Do I have to go, Doc? Just because they say so?

SHERIFF
Now, Dallas, I've got my orders. Don't blame these ladies. It 
ain't them.

DALLAS
It is them. Doc, haven't I any right to live? What have I done?

DOC BOONE
We have been struck down by a foul disease called social 
prejudice, my child. These dear ladies of the Law and Order 
League are scouring out the dregs of the town. Come on, be a 
proud, glorified dreg like me.

SHERIFF
You get going, Doc. You're drunk.

LANDLADY
Huh! Two of a kind. Just two of a kind.

DOC BOONE
Take my arm, Madame la Comtesse. The tumbrel awaits. To the 
guillotine.

LANDLADY
Oh, wait till I get my badge, girls. I'll join you.

PEACOCK
If ever you go East, brother, come out to our house for dinner. 
No one in all Kansas City, Kansas sets a better table than my 
dear wife, Violet.

DOC BOONE
Jerry.

JERRY
Yeah, Doc?

DOC BOONE
Jerry, I admit as one man to another, that economically I haven't 
been of much value to you. But, suppose you could put one on 
credit?

JERRY
If talk was money, Doc, you'd be the best customer I got.

DOC BOONE
I'm leaving town, Jerry.

JERRY
Honest?

DOC BOONE
Yes, old friend, and I thought you might, out of memory of our 
many happy...

JERRY
All right, Doc, just this one.

DOC BOONE
Thank you, Jerry.

JERRY
Here's a man goin' on the stagecoach with you. He's an Easterner, 
from Kansas City, Missouri.

PEACOCK
Kansas City, Kansas, brother.

DOC BOONE
To your health, Reverend.

PEACOCK
I'm not a clergyman. My name is Peacock. I'm a...

JERRY
He's a whiskey drummer.

DOC BOONE
A what? Well! Well, how are you Mr. Haycock! I...

PEACOCK
Peacock!

DOC BOONE
Don't tell me, sir, I know, I know a familiar name and an honored 
name! I never forget a face or a friend. Samples? Hmm. Ahh, rye!

BUCK
Well, Brownie, lookee here, Giddyap, whoa! Back up there...

MRS. GATEWOOD
I want five dollars, Henry.

GATEWOOD
Certainly, my dear, certainly. Well, what is it to be this time, 
my dear. A pair of shoes...

MRS. GATEWOOD
I want to pay the butcher. Dinner's at twelve o' clock.

GATEWOOD
Don't worry, my dear. I'll be there.

MRS. GATEWOOD
I've invited the ladies of the Law and Order League.

BUCK
All aboard for Dry Fork, Apache Wells, Lee's Ferry, and 
Lordsburg!

MARSHAL
I'll take that, Dallas.

DALLAS
Oh, thanks.

DEPUTY
In you go, Dallas, and a pleasant voyage.

MAN
Here's your baggage, Doc.

DOC BOONE
Thank you, thank you, my friend. Curly, my shingle. Carry it with 
honour.

PEACOCK
I'll take it, Doctor.

DOC BOONE
Oh, no, no trouble at all. No trouble at all. Why, I'll carry it 
on my lap. Here we go. Here we go, everyone.

MRS. GATEWOOD
Mrs. Whitney, you're not going to let your friend travel with 
that creature!

NANCY
She's right, Lucy. And besides, you're not well enough to travel.

LUCY
It's only a few hours, Nancy. I'm quite all right.

NANCY
But you shouldn't travel a step without a doctor.

LUCY
There is a doctor, dear. The driver told me.

MRS. GATEWOOD
Doctor? Doc Boone? Why he couldn't doctor a horse.

NANCY
Now, Lucy, darling, you must be very careful. Take good care of 
yourself. Oh, watch that step now.

BUCK
Lady folks ride facing forward, please.

NANCY
There you go.

DEPUTY
Pleasant journey, Mrs. Mallory.

LUCY
Thank you, goodbye.

NANCY
Goodbye.

DOC BOONE
Goodbye.

(00:10:03)**

HATFIELD
Like an angel in a jungle. A very wild jungle.

COWBOY
What are you doing, Hatfield? Talking to yourself?

HATFIELD
You wouldn't understand, cowboy. You've never seen an angel, nor 
a gentlewoman, nor a great lady. I raise, gentleman.

MAN
Well, so long, Buck.

MAN
So long, Curly.

MAN
Nice trip, boys.

CURLY
Wait a minute. Hold it, the cavalry's coming.

BUCK
Steady, girl.

BLANCHARD
Captain Sickels asks if you will deliver this dispatch in 
Lordsburg the moment you arrive. The telegraph line has been cut.

CURLY
Sure.

BLANCHARD
We're going with you as far as the noon station at Dry Fork. 
There'll be a troop of cavalry there and they'll take you on to 
Apache Wells. From Apache Wells you'll have another escort of 
soldiers into Lordsburg. But you must warn your passengers that 
they travel at their own risk.

CURLY
At their own risk? Well, what's the trouble, Lieutenant?

BLANCHARD
Geronimo!

BUCK
Geronimo? Well, then I ain't going.

CURLY
Will you sit down!

BLANCHARD
Of course, the Army has no authority over you gentlemen. If you 
think it unsafe to make the trip...

CURLY
This stage is going to Lordsburg. If you think it ain't safe to 
ride along with us, I figure we can get there without you 
soldier-boys.

BLANCHARD
I have my orders, sir, and I always obey orders.

BUCK
Oh...

CURLY
Did you all hear what the lieutenant said?

LUCY
Yes, we heard.

CURLY
Well, me and Buck are takin' this coach through, passengers or 
not. Now whoever wants to get out, can get out.

DOC
Courage, courage, Reverend. Ladies first.

CURLY
How about you, Dallas?

DALLAS
What are trying to do, scare somebody? They got me in here, now 
let 'em try to put me out. There are worse things than Apaches.

CURLY
If you'll take my advice ma'am, you won't take this trip.

LUCY
My husband is with his troops in Dry Fork. If he's in danger, I 
want to be with him.

PEACOCK
Well, you see, brother, I have a wife and five children...you 
see...

DOC
Then you're a man. By all the Powers that be, Reverend, you're a 
man.

CURLY
All right, folks...

HATFIELD
Marshal, make room for one more? I'm offering my protection to 
this lady. I can shoot fairly straight if there is need for it.

CURLY
That's been proved too many times, Hatfield. All right, get in. 
We're late.

HATFIELD
Tell them to move over, sir.

CURLY
Close the door.

BUCK
Oh, Curly, we...

CURLY
Get going, Buck.

BUCK
Oh, Bessie, Bonnie, Bill...Sweetheart, come on now, girl...

DOC
Farewell, ladies. Goodbye.

BUCK
Whoa...whoa...

GATEWOOD
Room for another passenger?

BUCK
Sure is, Mr. Gatewood. Goin' to Lordsburg?

GATEWOOD
That's right. Just got a telegram, had to stop and pack this bag.

BUCK
Hi, Bessie, hi there Bonnie, Blackie, Bill, ho! Bess, Bonnie, 
Queenie, steady girl, git along. Well, if there's anything I 
don't like, it's drivin' a stagecoach through Apache country.

CURLY
Funny ketchin' Gatewood outside of town that way.

BUCK
I just took this job ten years ago so I could make enough money 
to marry my Mexican girl, Juliette. I been workin' hard at it 
ever since...Bonnie get over. Whoa!

CURLY
At marriage?

BUCK
Certainly. My wife's got more relatives than anyone you ever did 
see. I bet I'm feedin' half the state of Chihuahua. Sweetheart!

CURLY
Don't it seem funny to you about Gatewood?

BUCK
Yeah. And what do I get to eat when I'm home in Lordsburg? Nothin 
but frijole beans, that's all, nothin' but beans, beans, beans. 
Bessie, Bonnie, Blackie, girl, now get along.

(00:14:42)**

GATEWOOD
Excuse me, ladies, uh, close quarter, uh warm today.

DOC
Your wife made if warm for me, Gatewood. She was chairman of our 
farewell committee.

GATEWOOD
Hmm-hmm. Fine-looking bunch of soldier boys back there. It always 
gives me great pride in my country when I see such fine men in 
the U.S. Army. Anybody know where they're going?

PEACOCK
Brother, aren't you aware of what's happened?

GATEWOOD
Happened? I, I don't follow you, Reverend.

PEACOCK
I'm not a clergyman. I'm...

DOC
My friend is a whiskey drummer. We're all going to be scalped, 
Gatewood. Massacred in one fell swoop. That's why the soldiers 
are with us.

GATEWOOD
He's joking, of course.

PEACOCK
Oh, no, he's not. Oh, dear, no. I wish he were.

DOC
It's that old Apache butcher, Geronimo. Geronimo, nice name for a 
butcher. He's jumped the reservation, he's on the warpath.

GATEWOOD
Geronimo? Why weren't the passengers notified? Why wasn't I told?

DOC
We were told, Gatewood. Weren't you told when you got that 
message from Lordsburg?

GATEWOOD
Oh, yes, yes, of course...I forgot...

BUCK
Steady now, string out, sweetheart! Now, doggone it, they're 
bringin' up her grandfather all the way from Mexico to live with 
us.

CURLY
I can't figure out how he got that message.

BUCK
Who, her grandfather?

CURLY
No, Gatewood.

BUCK
Sweetheart!

CURLY
Said he got a message.

BUCK
Sweetheart.

CURLY
The telegraph line ain't workin'.

BUCK
Sweetheart.

RINGO
Hold it!

BUCK
Whoa, steady! Whoa, whoa! Hey, look, it's Ringo.

CURLY
Yeah. Hello, Kid.

RINGO
Hello, Curly. Hiya, Buck, how's your folks?

BUCK
Oh, just fine, Ringo, except my grandfather came up...

CURLY
Shut up!

RINGO
Didn't expect to see you ridin' shotgun on this run, Marshal. 
Goin' to Lordsburg?

CURLY
I figured you'd be there by this time.

RINGO
Nope, lame horse. Well, it looks like you've got another 
passenger.

CURLY
Yeah. I'll take the Winchester.

RINGO
You may need me and this Winchester, Curly. I saw a ranch house 
burnin' last night.

CURLY
You don't understand, Kid. You're under arrest.

RINGO
Curly...

BLANCHARD
Everything all right, Marshal?

CURLY
Everything's all right, Lieutenant.

RINGO
Hope I ain't crowdin' you folks none.

PEACOCK
Oh, no...the more the merrier.

BUCK
Bonnie, Bessie, Blackie. Yo! Bessie! Ain't Ringo a fine boy?

CURLY
I think so.

BUCK
Hey, you're just smarter'n a trade rat. You knew all the time he 
was goin' to Lordsburg. Hey, reckon what he meant he saw rach 
houses burnin'?

CURLY
Apaches.

BUCK
Oh, Apaches.

GATEWOOD
So you're the notorious Ringo Kid.

RINGO
My friends just call me Ringo. Nick-name I had as a kid. Right 
name's Henry.

DOC
Seems to me I knew your family, Henry. Didn't I fix your arm once 
when you were, oh, bucked off a horse?

RINGO
Are you Doc Boone?

DOC
I certainly am. Now let's see, I'd just been honorably discharged 
from the Union Army, after the War of the Rebellion.

HATFIELD
you mean the war for the Southern Confederacy, suh?

DOC
I mean nothing of the kind, sir.

RINGO
That was my kid brother broke his arm. You did a good job, Doc, 
even if you was drunk.

DOC
Thank you, son. Professional compliments are always pleasing.

PEACOCK
Yes, they are.

DOC
What happened to that boy whose arm I fixed?

RINGO
He was murdered.

(00:20:20)**

HATFIELD
Put out that cigar. You're annoying this lady.

DOC
Excuse me, madam. Being so partial to the weed myself, I 
sometimes forget that it disagrees with others.

HATFIELD
A gentleman doesn't smoke in the presence of a lady.

DOC
Three weeks ago I took a bullet out of a man who was shot by a 
gentleman. The bullet was in his back.

HATFIELD
You mean to insinuate...

RINGO
Sit down, mister. Doc don't mean no harm.

BUCK
Be careful of Bessie up there now. Take it easy, hold it steady, 
girl. take a look and see if there ain't a stone in the hoof of 
that hoss down there.

DOC
Well, if it isn't my old friend Sergeant Billy Pickett! Well, how 
are you, Billy?

MRS. PICKETT
He's fine. Doc, and mighty glad to see you. Great heavens to 
Betsy, we didn't figure on no stagecoach comin' through, with 
them Apaches raisin' Cain. I was just tellin' Billy to hitch up 
the buckboard so we could take the young un's into...

GATEWOOD
Wait a minute, wait a minute you mean to say there are no troops 
at this station?

MRS. PICKETT
Ain't no soldiers here but what you see.

LUCY
But my husband, Captain Mallory! I was told he was here.

MRS. PICKETT
He was, dearie, got orders night afore last to join the soldiers 
at Apache Wells.

BUCK
Well, that means we got to go back.

GATEWOOD
I can't go back. Oh, look here, driver, this stage has started 
for Lordsburg and it's your duty to get us there. And it's your 
duty, young man, to come along with us.

BLANCHARD
It's my duty, Mr. Gatewood, to obey orders. I'm sorry, sir.

BUCK
Oh, well, if you soldiers go back, Lieutenant, it means we all 
have to go back.

BLANCHARD
My orders are to return from here immediately. And I can't 
disobey those orders.

RINGO
I think we can get through all right, Curly.

BUCK
Oh, no, don't egg him on. Kid, I'm driving this here outfit and, 
well, the soldiers go back, so am I.

GATEWOOD
I call this a desertion of duty. I'll report you to your superior 
officers. And if necessary I'll take it up with Washington.

BLANCHARD
That's your privilege, sir. But if you give us any trouble here 
I'll have to put you under restraint.

GATEWOOD
Now don't lose your temper, don't lose your temper.

CURLY
I'll tell you how we'll settle it. We'll take a vote. Inside 
everybody. Come on, Buck.

BUCK
Oh, Curly, I don't want to.

MRS. PICKETT
Now you girls, set yourselves down and I'll get you something to 
eat.

CURLY
Now, folks, if we push on we can be in Apache Wells by sundown. 
Soldiers there will give us an escort as far as the ferry. Then 
it's only a hoot and a holler into Lordsburg.

BUCK
Well...

CURLY
We got four men can handle firearms, five with you, Ringo. Doc 
can shoot, if sober.

DOC
I can shoot...I can shoot.

CURLY
Now, Mrs. Mallory, I, I ain't goin' to put a lady in danger 
without she votes for it.

LUCY
I've traveled all the way here from Virginia. I'm determined to 
get to my husband. I won't be separated any longer.

CURLY
What's you vote, mister?

RINGO
Where's your manners, Curly? Ain't you gonna ask the other lady 
first?

CURLY
Well, what do you say?

DALLAS
What difference does it make? It doesn't matter.

GATEWOOD
I vote that we go on. I demand it. I'm standing on my legal 
rights!

CURLY
What do you say, Hatfield?

HATFIELD
Lordsburg.

CURLY
Four. You, Doc?

DOC
I am not only a philosopher, sir, I'm a fatalist. Somewhere, 
sometime there may be the right bullet or the wrong bottle 
waiting for Josian Boon. Why worry when or where?

CURLY
Yes or no?

DOC
Having that philosophy, sir, I have always courted danger. During 
the late war, when I had the honor to serve the Union under our 
great President Abraham Lincoln, ah...and General Phil Sheridan. 
Well, sir, I fought 'midst shot and shell and the cannons' roar.

CURLY
Do you want to go back or not?

DOC
No! I want another drink.

(00:25:20)**

CURLY
That's five. How about you, Mr. Hencock?

PEACOCK
Peacock. Umm, I'd like to go on, Brother. I want to reach the 
bosom of my dear family in Kansas City, Kansas, as quickly as 
possible. But I may never reach that bosom if we go on, so, under 
the circumstances, you understand, Brother, I think it best we go 
back with the bosoms, I mean the soldiers.

CURLY
One against. Well, Buck?

BUCK
I...

CURLY
Buck says aye. That's six. I'm votin' your proxy, Kid. You go 
with me.

RINGO
Ain't nothing keeping me out of Lordsburg, Curly.

CURLY
There sure ain't. Well, folks, that settles it. We're going 
through. Set down folks, and eat your grub. Come on, Buck, we'll 
change them horses.

BUCK
Aw but Curly, ain't we gonna eat?

CURLY
We'll eat later.

BUCK
Oh.

MRS. PICKETT
Here you are, folks. Food on the table. Help yourself. You got a 
long ride ahead of you. You ain't drinkin', Billy?

RINGO
Sit down here, ma'am.

DALLAS
Thanks.

HATFIELD
May I find you another place, Mrs. Mallory? It's cooler by the 
window.

LUCY
Thank you.

RINGO
Looks like I got the plague, don't it?

DALLAS
No, no, it's not you.

RINGO
Well, I guess you can't break out of prison and into society in 
the same week.

DALLAS
Please, please.

HATFIELD
You're ill, Mrs. Mallory?

LUCY
No, it's just that I...I'll be all right. You've been very kind, 
why?

HATFIELD
In the world I live in one doesn't often meet a lady, Mrs. 
Mallory.

LUCY
Have you ever been in Virginia?

HATFIELD
I was in your father's regiment.

LUCY
I should remember your name. You're Mr. Hatfield?

HATFIELD
That's what I'm called, yes.

DALLAS
Why do you look at me like that?

RINGO
Just trying to remember. Ain't I seen you some place before, 
ma'am?

DALLAS
No! No, you haven't.

RINGO
Hm, I wish I had though.

DALLAS
I know you, I mean, I know who you are. I guess everybody in the 
Territory does.

RINGO
Yep, well, I used to be a good cowhand, but...things happened.

DALLAS
Yeah, that's it, things happen. Now they'll take you back to 
prison.

RINGO
Not till I finish a job, In Lordsburg.

DALLAS
But you can't, you're going there as a prisoner.

BUCK
All aboard for Apache Wells, Lee's Ferry...

CURLY
All right, folks, the horses are changed. We'd better get 
going...

BUCK
...and Lordsburg, maybe.

CURLY
All right, get going, Ringo. Mrs. Pickett, tell Billy the 
buckboard's all ready.

MRS. PICKETT
All right, Marshal, we're ready.

BLANCHARD
I'll say goodbye now, Mrs. Mallory, and my compliments to your 
husband.

CURLY
Come on, let's get going.

PEACOCK
I still feel that we ought to go back with the soldiers.

(00:30:58)**

BUCK
Bridesmaid! Baby! Whoa! What'd you say?

CURLY
Nothin'.

BUCK
Well, why don't you say something? A feller gets nervous setting 
here like a dummy with nothing to do but think about those 
Indians.

CURLY
You say something. You been sitting here all day talking without 
making any sense.

BUCK
All right, I'll say something that makes sense, If I was you I'd 
let 'em shoot it out?

CURLY
Let who?

BUCK
Luke Plummer and the Kid. There'd be a lot more peace in this 
Territory if that Luke Plummer was so full of lead he couldn't 
hold his liquor.

CURLY
I ain't saying i don't share you sentiments, Buck, but you're a 
born fool.

BUCK
Oh, I know that.

CURLY
In the first place, Luke would kill the Kid in a gunfight. In the 
second place if Luke did get shot he's got two brothers just as 
ornery as he is. Naw, the only safe place for Ringo is in the pen 
and I aim to get him there all in one piece.

BUCK
Well, I'll be doggoned if I didn't do you an injury, Curly. I 
figured you was after the reward.

CURLY
Reward? Why the Kid's old man and me was friends, we used to 
punch cattle together. Besides, I could use that five hundred in 
gold.

BUCK
Bridesmaid! Steady! Steady, girl! Bridesmaid, in line!

GATEWOOD
I can't get over the impertinence of that young lieutenant! I'll 
make it warm for that shavetail! I'll report him to Washington. 
We pay taxes to the government and what do we get? Not even 
protection from the Army. I don't know what the government's 
coming to! Instead of protecting business men, it pokes its nose 
into business. Hm, why they're even talking now about having bank 
examiners, as if we bankers don't know how to run our own banks. 
I actually had a letter from some popinjay official saying they 
were going to inspect my books! I have a slogan, gentlemen, that 
should be emblazoned on every newspaper in the country. America 
for Americans! The government must not interfere with business! 
Reduce taxes! Our national debt is something shocking, over one 
billion dollars a year! What this country needs is a business man 
for President!

DOC
What the country needs is more fuddle.

PEACOCK
What?

DOC
Fuddle!

GATEWOOD
Your drunk.

DOC
I'm happy, Gatewood. Boo!

CURLY
How come you're taking this road? It's gonna be cold up there.

BUCK
I'm using my head. Those breech-clout Apaches don't like snow.

DALLAS
Maybe you'd like to sit next to me? You could put your head on my 
shoulder.

LUCY
No, thank you.

HATFIELD
How are you feeling, Mrs. Mallory?

LUCY
Is there any water?

HATFIELD
Driver, canteen, please. Just a minute, Mrs. Mallory.

LUCY
Haven't I seen this crest before? Isn't this from Greenfield 
Manor?

HATFIELD
I wouldn't know, Mrs. Mallory. I won this cup on a wager.

(00:35:02)**

RINGO
How about the other lady?

DALLAS
Thanks.

RINGO
Sorry, no silver cups.

DALLAS
This is fine.

GATEWOOD
No.

PEACOCK
Please, doctor...

BUCK
Yow...yow...

BUCK
Whoa, steady, whoa...Howdy, Chris. Seven hours from Dry Fork. 
Pretty fast driving, amigo!

CURLY
Get the folks a bite to eat, Chris, while we change horses. We're 
pushin' right on to Lordsburg.

CHRIS
You come without soldiers?

BUCK
Oh, we weren't scared. We didn't see one Apache, did we, Curly?

CURLY
Where's the cavalry, Chris?

BUCK
Yeah, where is the soldiers?

CHRIS
There ain't no soldiers.

BUCK
Huh?

CHRIS
Soldiers have gone.

LUCY
Where's Captain Mallory? Where's my husband? Where is he?

CHRIS
You his wife, I think?

LUCY
Yes, where is he? Did he go with his men?

CHRIS
Si, senora. Leetle, what you call it, scrimmage, with the Apaches 
last night. Soldiers take Captain Mallory to Lordsburg. I think 
he get hurt, maybe.

LUCY
Badly?

CHRIS
Si, senora...I think so.

DALLAS
Mrs. Mallory, I'm awfully sorry, if there's anything I could...

LUCY
I'm quite all right, thank you.

HATFIELD
Marshal, come here, quickly.

DALLAS
Come on, Doc.

RINGO
Let's go, Doc.

(00:40:02)**

PEACOCK
Poor woman...

GATEWOOD
A sick woman on our hands! That's all we needed.

BUCK
I...I feel kinda sick myself.

GATEWOOD
We're in a fine fix, my friends. It's a fine country we're living 
in. The Army has no right to leave a public place like this 
undefended.

RINGO
Looks to me like the Army's got its hands pretty full, mister.

DALLAS
Have you a wife?

CHRIS
Si, senora, I think.

DALLAS
Call her.

CHRIS
Yakima!

DALLAS
Ringo, go into the kitchen, and get hot water, lots of hot water, 
please.

RINGO
Yes, ma'am. Hey, Chris, Done la concina? (Where's the kitchen?)

CHRIS
A qui esta, Keed. (Here it is, Kid).

HATFIELD
A fine member of the medical profession! Drunken beast!

DOC
Coffee. Give me coffee...black coffee, lots of it!

DOC
More, more...

CURLY
Isn't that enough, Doc? That's four?

DOC
More, blacker, stronger...

CURLY
You'll have it coming out your ears in a minute.

DOC
Keep 'er coming, Curly.

CURLY
All right, Doc...Now drink it down, Doc. Drink it down.

RINGO
Get it down.

CURLY
That'll make you feel better.

RINGO
All right, Doc?

HATFIELD
Isn't that drunken swine sober yet?

CURLY
He's doing the best he can.

HATFIELD
Well, hurry.

CURLY
Tin horn.

RINGO
How are you feeling?

DOC
Fine. Thanks! Again!

RINGO
Sit down here, Doc.

CURLY
Keep the fire going, Chris. Plenty of hot water.

PEACOCK
Savage!

CHRIS
That's my wife, Yakima, my squaw.

PEACOCK
Yes, but she, she's a savage.

CHRIS
Si, senor, she's little bit savage, I think. Get into the 
kitchen, pronto, and get some hot water, go on, quick.

GATEWOOD
There's something funny about this. That woman's an Apache!

CHRIS
Sure, she one of Geronimo's people, I think. Maybe not so bad to 
have Apache wife, eh? Apaches don't bother me, I think.

CURLY
All right, Doc?

DOC
All right. All right. All right, Dallas.

YAKIMA
Al pensar en ti (When I think of you) 
Tierra en que naci (Land where I was born)
Que nostalgia siente mi corazon (What sadness fills my heart)
En mi soledad (In my loneliness)
Con este cantar (With this song)
Siento alivio y consuelo en mi dolor (I feel relieved and 
consoled in my pain) 


No men, get out. 


Las notas tristes de esta concion (The sad notes of this song)
Me traen recuedos de aquel amor (They bring me remembrance of 
that love)
Al pensar en el (When I think of him)
Vuelve a renacer (Is born again)
La alegria en mi triste corazon (The happiness in my sad heart)

CURLY
Ringo!

BUCK
It's them vaqueros! They've run away.

CURLY
Yeah, with the spare horses.

(00:45:00)**

BUCK
Them coyotes gimme the creeps. They sound, well, it sounds just 
like a baby..... black eight.

BUCK
It's a baby.

DALLAS
It's a little girl.

BUCK
It's a little girl. Well, I'll be doggoned. Why didn't somebody 
tell me?

HATFIELD
How is Mrs. Mallory?

DALLAS
She's going to be all right.

BUCK
Well, I'll be doggoned. Did you know? Well, I'll be doggoned.

PEACOCK
Don't do that.

PEACOCK
Dr. Boone!

CURLY
Come on, boys, three cheers for old Doc Boone!

ALL
Hip, hip...

PEACOCK
Quiet!

BUCK
Well, we oughta be...

PEACOCK
Quiet! Mrs. Mallory...

CURLY
Oh!

CHRIS
Kid, I know why you want to go to Lordsburg. I like you, I know 
your Pop, he was a good friend of mine. If you know who's in 
Lordsburg, you stay away, I think.

RINGO
You mean Luke Plummer?

CHRIS
Luke, Ike, and Hank, all there together. I saw them.

RINGO
Sure of that, Chris?

CHRIS
Sure. I can tell you the truth, I know...

RINGO
Thanks. That's all I wanted to know.

CHRIS
Si, you crazy if you go. I think you stay way, Kid. Three against 
one is no good.

RINGO
You oughtn't to go too far, Miss Dallas. Apaches like to sneak up 
and pick off strays. You, ah, visiting in Lordsburg?

DALLAS
No, no, I have friends there, and maybe I can find work. Say, 
look, Kid, why don't you try to escape? Why don't you get away?

RINGO
I aim to...in Lordsburg.

DALLAS
Why Lordsburg? Why don't you make for the border now?

RINGO
My father and brother were shot down by the Plummer boys. I guess 
you don't know how it feels to lose your own folks that way.

DALLAS
I lost mine when I was a kid. There was a massacre in 
Superstition Mountain.

RINGO
That's tough, especially on a girl.

DALLAS
Well, you gotta live, no matter what happens.

RINGO
Yeah, that's it. Look, Miss Dallas. You got no folks, neither 
have I, and well, maybe I'm taking a lot for granted, but I 
watched you with that baby, that other woman's baby, you looked 
well...well, I still got a ranch across the border. It's a nice 
place, a real nice place...trees, grass, water, there's a cabin 
half built. A man could live there, and a woman. Will you go?

DALLAS
But you don't know me. You don't know who I am.

RINGO
I know all I want to know. Will you go?

DALLAS
Oh, don't talk like that.

(00:50:30)**

CURLY
What you doin' out here, Kid? Stick close to the reservation.

CHRIS
Curly! Oh, Curly! Oh, Curly! Curly!

CURLY
What's wrong, Chris?

CHRIS
My wife, Yakima, she run away. When I wake up she was gone.

CURLY
The way you come bustin' in here you'd think we...

RINGO
Oh...

CURLY
Excuse me, Kid. ...come busting in here, you'd think we were 
being attacked. You can find another wife, Chris.

CHRIS
Sure I find another wife! But she take my rifle and my horse! Oh, 
I never sell her, I love her so much. I beat her wid de whip, and 
she never get tired!

DOC
Your wife?

CHRIS
No, my horse! I can find another wife easy, yes, but not a horse 
like that. Mala Yakima.

GATEWOOD
I knew that woman was a thief.

CURLY
What's the matter with you, Gatewood?

GATEWOOD
My valise! Where's my valise? Which one of you have got it?

BUCK
Here it is. I been usin' it for a pillow. I didn't think you 
would mind.

GATEWOOD
I told you to keep your hands off my things?

BUCK
Yes, sir. If that squaw of yours finds some Apaches and bring 'em 
back here...

CHRIS
My wife's people won't bother me, I think.

BUCK
They bother me, I think.

DOC
Chris, is this bar open?

CHRIS
Sure, all the time, senor, si. Here you are, Doc.

GATEWOOD
Well, what are we wasting time for? Let's make a break for it.

HATFIELD
We've got a sick woman to think of.

GATEWOOD
Do you want her to stay here and be butchered, with the rest of 
us?

HATFIELD
Why don't you ever think of someone else in your fat, worthless 
life?

GATEWOOD
Do you realize...

CURLY
Easy, easy, quiet, boys, quiet. We ain't been butchered yet. But 
you're right, we'd better get goin' for Lordsburg as soon as we 
can.

RINGO
Might be a good idea, Curly, if, uh, Doc took a look at the 
patient

BUCK
Yeah, and Little Coyote.

GATEWOOD
Won't you join me, Doctor?

DOC
No, thanks.

DOC
Good morning. Well, you're looking pretty chipper. You're up 
early, Dallas.

LUCY
She didn't go to bed, Doctor. I'm afraid she sat up all night, 
while I slept.

DALLAS
Oh, I slept a lot in the chair. Well, anyway, it was nice to stay 
awake and hold the baby.

DOC
Hmm, we've got to get you to Lordsburg, Little Coyote. That's 
what the boys christened her last night when she squalled. Little 
Coyote. How do you feel?

LUCY
Fine, thank you. A little tired...Doctor, do you think my 
husband.

DOC
Never mind him! The best medicine he can have is to see you two 
safe and sound. You just make up your mind you're going to get 
there.

LUCY
I have made up my mind.

DOC
That's the stuff.

LUCY
I am going to get there.

DOC
You need strength, so get all the rest you can. Dallas, do you 
suppose you can fix up a little broth?

LUCY
She has already.

DOC
Good! How about making some coffee for the boys? Now you get some 
sleep, Mrs. Mallory. And don't look so proud. I've brought 
hundreds of those little fellows into the world, once upon a 
time, and the new one was always the prettiest.

DALLAS
Doc...Ringo asked me to marry him. Is that wrong for a girl like 
me? If a man and woman love each other, it's all right, ain't it, 
Doc?

DOC
You're going to be hurt, child...worse than you've ever been 
hurt. Don't you know that boy's headed back for prison? Besides, 
if you two go into Lordsburg together, he's going to know all 
about you.

(00:55:00)**

DALLAS
He's not going into Lordsburg. All I want is for you to tell me 
it's all right.

DOC
Gosh, child, who am I to tell you what's right or wrong? All 
right, go ahead, do it if you can. Good, good luck.

DALLAS
Thanks, Doc.

DOC
Ringo.

CURLY
Well, Doc?

DOC
Both doing nicely. She's a real soldier's wife, that young lady.

GATEWOOD
Good, good. Then we can leave immediately.

DOC
Well, not for a day or so, if you want my professional advice.

GATEWOOD
What do you mean a day or so? Stay another day? Why?

DOC
Where were you when the stork came last night, Gatewood?

HATFIELD
I refuse to allow Mrs. Mallory to travel until she and the child 
are out of danger.

GATEWOOD
What do you mean danger? Aren't we in worse danger here?

PEACOCK
I don't wish to intrude, but, I've had five children, I mean my 
dear wife has, and much as I dislike discussing it in this hour 
of our trial, I, I believe the doctor's right.

DOC
Spoken like a man, Reverend.

GATEWOOD
I say we ought to leave here before the Apaches find us. That's 
common sense.

HATFIELD
I wish you were ten years younger, Gatewood.

GATEWOOD
Don't let my white hairs stop you.

BUCK
Wait a minute, I...

CURLY
Wait a minute...

BUCK
Aw, Curly, I haven't said a word...

CURLY
Now you shut up. If we argue this thing out right we'll get 
somewhere. Let's all sit down and talk sensible. Come on, Buck, 
sit down.

DOC
There's a young woman in the kitchen making coffee. She needs 
help.

RINGO
Thanks, Doc.

DOC
Say, Kid, how old were you when you went to the pen?

RINGO
Oh, I was going on seventeen...

RINGO
Morning, ma'am.

DALLAS
Morning.

RINGO
I, uh, laid awake most of the night, wondering what you'da said 
if Curly hadn't busted in. Guess you was up kinda late, too, I 
heard you moving around. You didn't answer what I asked you last 
night.

DALLAS
Look, Kid, why don't you try to escape? There's a horse out there 
in the corral. Curly won't go after you because he can't leave 
the passengers in a fix like this.

RINGO
I got to go to Lordsburg. Why don't you go to my ranch and wait 
for me?

DALLAS
Wait for a dead man? You haven't got a chance. It was three 
against one when the Plummers swore that you killed their foreman 
and got you sent up. It'll be three against one in Lordsburg.

RINGO
Well, there's some things a man just can't run away from.

DALLAS
How can you talk about your life and my life when you're throwing 
'em away? Yeah, mine, too! That's what you're throwing away if 
you go to Lordsburg!

RINGO
What do you want me to do?

DALLAS
Would it make us any happier if Luke Plummer was dead? One of his 
brothers would be after you with a gun. We'd never be safe. I 
don't want that kind of life, Ringo.

RINGO
Well, I don't see what else I can do.

DALLAS
Go now, get away, forget Lordsburg, forget the Plummers. Make for 
the border and I'll come to you.

RINGO
Do you mean that?

DALLAS
Yes, I do.

RINGO
Will, you go with me, Dallas?

DALLAS
Oh, I can't leave Mrs. Mallory and the baby. I'll come to you 
from Lordsburg. I swear it.

RINGO
Well, I oughta have my rifle.

DALLAS
I've got one...right here. I got it last night, while they were 
all asleep.

RINGO
You mean you thought of this last night?

DALLAS
Yes, don't ask any more questions, not now.

BUCK
Oh, gosh, Curly, there ain't no Apaches behind us. We can still 
go back to Tonto.

GATEWOOD
No, I insist we go on to Lordsburg.

CURLY
What do you think, Chris?

CHRIS
Geronimo between here and Lordsburg...with my horse, I think.

DOC
My horse has gone... She has gone astray... With the sun...

BUCK
Quiet, Doc. This is a serious matter, ain't it?

DOC
My dear Buck, if I have only one hour to live, I'm going to enjoy 
myself.

PEACOCK
Doctor, I don't begrudge my samples, but I think...

BUCK
Now you hush up! I've stood enough of you. Now this is a serious 
problem and I'm the only one who is talking sense. Now if 
Curly...

CURLY
If we can get to the ferry, we'll be all right. The question is 
what are we going to do about that lady and her baby.

HATFIELD
Doctor Boon has settled that for us, suh, and I demand respect 
for his professional opinion.

DOC
Hatfield!

CURLY
Ringo! Ringo! Ringo!

DALLAS
Hurry, Ringo.

CURLY
Ringo!

DALLAS
Hurry! Goodbye! 

(01:00:00)**

DALLAS
Ringo, don't stop! Go on, go on! Keep riding...Ringo, go on, go 
on...Curly, stop. Let him go!

RINGO
You don't need them, Curly. I ain't going to run away.

CURLY
I'll say you ain't.

RINGO
Look at them hills.

CURLY
Apaches!

RINGO
War signals.

BUCK
Bridesmaid! Yow...yow...Hey, Curly, why don't you take them cuffs 
off the kid? He's mighty handy with a gun.

CURLY
You drive them horses. I'll take care of the Kid.

BUCK
Oh!

GATEWOOD
Can't you drive any faster? Thick-headed lout! We've got to make 
that ferry. A man works all his life to get hold of some money so 
that he can enjoy life and has to run into a trap like this.

PEACOCK
Trap, Brother? You mean the Apaches? There's been no sign of 
them.

GATEWOOD
You don't see any signs of them. They strike like rattlesnakes. 
If you hadn't insisted on waiting for her, we'd have been across 
the ferry by this time.

HATFIELD
You talk too much, Gatewood.

GATEWOOD
Your threats don't faze me, Hatfield. You're nothing but a 
tinhorn gambler.

HATFIELD
How would you like to get out and walk?

GATEWOOD
You can't put me out of a public conveyance!

DOC
Now, now gentlemen, gentlemen!

RINGO
Take it easy, Gatewood. We may need that fight before we get to 
the Ferry.

GATEWOOD
You wouldn't be much good in a fight, you jailbird.

HATFIELD
Oh, leave the Kid alone. He's handcuffed.

PEACOCK
Gentlemen, please, let's not forget the ladies, bless them. Let's 
have a little Christian charity one for the other.

CURLY
Well, folks, we're coming into Lee's Ferry now.

BUCK
Lordsburg next stop. Nice girl, get along, get along.
Curly, look! Look at the ferry, it's burned, too.

CURLY
Hatfield, stand guard over there.

GATEWOOD
Where's the Army? What are the soldiers doing?

DOC
Curly, what can I do?

CURLY
Stay there, Doc. Ringo, come here, I need you.

GATEWOOD
Are they going to let Geronimo pillage and burn the whole 
country?

CURLY
Will you give me your word you won't try to escape again?

RINGO
I give you my word...to Lordsburg.

CURLY
Get in the coach with them women?

RINGO
I gave you my word.

DALLAS
Ringo, don't.

CURLY
Buck, drive into the river up to the hubs.

BUCK
Baby, Bridesmaid, Yow! Come on, Baby, whoa, girl, steady now...

RINGO
Look out, Curly.

CURLY
Kid, take your suspenders and cross-tie them wheels.

BUCK
Sorry about the saddle, Kid.

CURLY
Ready, Kid?

RINGO
All set.

CURLY
Ready, Buck?

BUCK
All ready, Curly.

CURLY
Here we go. Just sit tight, folks, and you'll be all right.

BUCK
Honey, chile. Steady, steady, Bridesmaid. Come on, girl. Easy 
now. Whoa, girl. That's the girl. Whoa, take it easy.

(01:05:00)**

BUCK
All aboard for Lordsburg, Lordsburg. Say, Curly.

CURLY
Yeah, what?

BUCK
Do you think I ought to charge Mrs. Mallory's baby half fare? 
Sweetheart!

GATEWOOD
Well, we'll soon be in Lordsburg. Well, sorry I flew off the 
handle, Hatfield. My apologies, Doctor. No hard feelings, I hope.

PEACOCK
All in all, it's been an exciting, a very interesting trip, has 
it not?

DOC
Well, now that the danger is past, Mr.

PEACOCK
...Peacock.

DOC
And ladies and gentlemen, since it's most unlikely that we will 
ever have the pleasure of meeting again socially, I'd like to 
propose a toast...Major, Gatewood, Ringo, your health.

GATEWOOD
Thanks.

HATFIELD
Thank you, sir.

BUCK
Get on, girl. Get on, get on, yow, yow, yow, yow, yow, yooow, 
yooooow.

GATEWOOD
I warned you, I warned you of this danger. I told you not to wait 
for that woman. Let me out of here, I tell you.

HATFIELD
Get back, you fool.

BUCK
Yow, yow, yooow.

GATEWOOD
We'll all be killed, we'll all be slaughtered!

BUCK
Yow, yow, yow, yooow!

DOC
Will you shut up! I've got a patient here. Get back, you fool.

GATEWOOD
Take your hands off me, you drunken fool.

CURLY
Get the leader.

BUCK
Yow, yow, yow, yo, yo, yo!

(01:10:00)**

CURLY
Kid. The leaders, kid. Get the leaders.

DOC
Curly, more ammunition.

LUCY
Do you hear it? Do you hear it? It's the bugle! They're blowing 
the charge!

HATFIELD
If you see Judge Greenfield, tell him his son...

CAPTAIN
Thank heaven you're safe, Lucy.

LUCY
Where's Richard? Is he all right?

CAPTAIN
He's all right, don't you worry.

WOMAN #1
It isn't a bad wound.

CAPTAIN
We'll take you to him immediately.

WOMAN #2
Where's the baby, dear?

NURSE
I'll take the baby.

LUCY
Dallas, if there's ever anything I can do for...

DALLAS
I know.

VOICE
Orderly!

(01:15:20)**

FAT MAN
It's the Ringo Kid!

THIN MAN
Yeah.

LUKE
Aces and eights.

GAMBLER
Dead man's hand, Luke.

FAT MAN
Ringo Kid's in town.

THIN MAN
Yeah, driving the stage.

LUKE
(in Spanish) My brothers.

SPANIARD
Si, patron.

LUKE
Cash in.

SOLDIER
Easy now. Easy. That's right.

PEACOCK
Goodbye, Miss Dallas. If you ever come to Kansas city, Kansas, I 
want you to come out to see us.

DALLAS
Well, thanks, Mr...

PEACOCK
Peacock.

MAN #1
Hello, Buck! You got through all right!

BUCK
All right, Jim.

MAN #2
All right, folks, you're all right. Unload.

BUCK
Well...Lordsburg.

MAN #3
Thank you, thank you, Doctor. Well, thank you.

CURLY
Well, Kid.

RINGO
Curly, how long will they give me for breakin' out?

CURLY
Oh, about another year.

RINGO
You know where my ranch is?

CURLY
Yeah.

RINGO
Will you see that she gets there all right?

CURLY
Dallas?

RINGO
Yeah. This is no town for a girl like her. Will you do it?

CURLY
Sure.

SHERIFF
Hiya, Marshal, get my man through all right?

CURLY
I don't need 'em.

GATEWOOD
If you don't want to lose your business, Sheriff, you'd better 
take care of him yourself.

SHERIFF
What's your name, Mister?

GATEWOOD
My name is Gatewood. Ellsworth H. Gatewood.

SHERIFF
Oh, Gatewood! You didn't think they'd had the telegraph wire 
fixed, did you?

GATEWOOD
You let me go...

RINGO
Can I meet you back here in ten minutes? I gave you my word, 
Curly. I ain't going back on it now.

CURLY
No ammunition.

RINGO
I lied to you, Curly...got three left. (to Dallas) Come on.

(01:20:20)**

DALLAS
Good night, Kid.

RINGO
Is this where you live?

DALLAS
No!

RINGO
I got to know where you live, don't I?

DALLAS
No, don't come any further. It's all been a crazy dream! I been 
out of my mind, just hoping. Say goodbye here, Kid.

RINGO
We ain't never gonna say goodbye.

DOC
Can I have that?

LUKE
Give me the shotgun...shotgun!

GIRL
Luke, Luke, please don't.

DALLAS
Well, Kid, I...I told you not to follow me.

RINGO
Dallas! I asked you to marry me, didn't I?

DALLAS
I'll never forget you asked me, Kid. That's something.

RINGO
Wait here.

BUCK
Whoa! Ringo said he'd be passing this way in six or seven 
minutes.

LUKE
Come on.

DOC
I'll take that shotgun, Luke.

LUKE
You'll take it in the belly if you don't get outa my way.

DOC
I'll have you indicted for murder if you step outside with that 
shotgun.

LUKE
We'll attend to you later.

DOC
Don't ever let me do that again.

(01:25:53)**

GIRL'S VOICE
Luke!

EDITOR
Hey, Billy! Billy, kill that story about the Republican 
Convention in Chicago and take this down. The Ringo Kid was 
killed on Main Street in Lordsburg tonight and among the 
additional dead were...leave that blank for a spell.

TYPESETTER
I didn't hear any shooting, Ed.

EDITOR
You will, Billy, you will.

A PLUMMER
I missed him at four feet.

DALLAS
Ringo, Ringo, Ringo...

CURLY
Ready, Kid?

RINGO
Thanks, Curly. Curly's going to see that you get to my place 
across the border. Well...goodbye, Dallas.

DALLAS
Goodbye.

CURLY
Maybe you'd like to ride aways with the Kid?

DALLAS
Please.

DOC
Well, they're saved from the blessings of civilization.

CURLY
Yeah...Doc, I'll buy you a drink.

DOC
Just one.

THE END

